[Draft] Accountless docs (#1699)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/keyless.mdx

---
title: Keyless Mode
description: Learn about Clerk's Keyless Mode.
---

> **Keyless Mode** allows you to try out Clerk in your local development environment without having to sign-up for a Clerk account.

Reviewer: I believe we treat the non-hyphenated version as the verb:
```suggestion
**Keyless Mode** allows you to try out Clerk in your local development environment without having to sign up for a Clerk account.
```

## How does it work?

If Clerk's SDK doesn't detect valid [Clerk keys](TODO) in your environment, it will automatically fetch a set of keys for you. These keys are associated with a Clerk development instance that has a default configuration. When running locally in Keyless Mode, you'll see a banner indicating that you're running in this special mode with a link to claim your instance by signing up for a Clerk account, or signing in if you already have one.

> Keys are written to a file in your project's `.clerk` directory. Ensure that this directory is added your `.gitignore` file to prevent keys from being committed to your repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keys are written to a file in a `.clerk` directory in your project. Ensure that this directory is added your `.gitignore` file to prevent keys from being committed to your repository.
```

### Default configuration

Clerk development instances have the following default configuration:

- **Authentication**: Email and password, Sign-in with Google
- **Verification**: Email verification is required
- **Password reset**: Password reset is enabled
- **MFA**: MFA is disabled
- **Appearance**: Default appearance

When using Clerk in Keyless Mode, you're not able to make configuration changes to your instance. To make changes, [claim your instance](#claiming-keyless-keys).

## Keyless Mode support

> Keyless mode works with Clerk's SDKs for [Next.js](/docs/quickstarts/nextjs), [Remix](/docs/quickstarts/remix), and [Tanstack Start](/docs/quickstarts/tanstack-start). If you're using a different framework or SDk, you'll need to manually configure Clerk keys in your environment. Visit the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/sign-up) to create an account, create an instance and get your keys.

Reviewer: Oxford comma? 😇

```suggestion
Keyless mode works with Clerk's SDKs for [Next.js](/docs/quickstarts/nextjs), [Remix](/docs/quickstarts/remix), and [Tanstack Start](/docs/quickstarts/tanstack-start). If you're using a different framework or SDK, you'll need to manually configure Clerk keys in your environment. Visit the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/sign-up) to create an account, create an instance, and get your keys.
```

Author: ah, yes - I'm going to update this to remove the other frameworks for now since we're just starting with NextJS.

> Keyless mode _may_ work in other environments, but it's not officially supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keyless Mode _may_ work in other environments or SDKs, but it's not officially supported.
```

## Claiming keys

> When you're ready to make configuration changes to your instance, you can claim the keys that were created automatically. To do this, click the "Claim your instance" button in the Clerk toolbar on your localhost. You'll then be prompted to sign-up for a Clerk account, or sign-in if you already have one. From there, you can give your Clerk application a name and the keys will be associated with your account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you're ready to make configuration changes to your instance, you can claim the automatically generated keys. To do this, click the "Claim your instance" button in the Clerk toolbar on your local application. You'll then be prompted to sign up for a Clerk account, or sign in if you already have one. After authenticating, give your application a name and the keys will be associated with your account.
```

> You'll need to copy and paste the keys into your `.env` file to persist them in your project. This will disable Keyless mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll need to copy and paste the keys into your `.env` file to persist them in your project. This will disable Keyless Mode.
```

## How does it work?

If Clerk's SDK doesn't detect valid [Clerk keys](TODO) in your environment, it will automatically fetch a set of keys for you. These keys are associated with a Clerk development instance that has a default configuration. When running locally in Keyless Mode, you'll see a UI toast indicating that you're running in this special mode with a link to claim your instance by signing up for a Clerk account, or signing in if you already have one.

Keys are written to a file in a `.clerk` directory in your project. The Clerk SDK will try to add this directory to your `.gitignore` file to prevent keys from being committed to your repository.

### Default configuration

Clerk development instances have the following default configuration:

- **Authentication**: Email and password, Sign-in with Google, Sign-in with GitHub
- **Verification**: Email verification is required
- **Password reset**: Password reset is enabled
- **MFA**: MFA is disabled
- **Appearance**: Default appearance

When using Clerk in Keyless Mode, you're not able to make configuration changes to your instance. To make changes, [claim your instance](#claiming-keys).

## Keyless Mode support

> Keyless mode works with Clerk's SDKs for [Next.js](/docs/quickstarts/nextjs). If you're using a different framework or SDk, you'll need to manually configure Clerk keys in your environment. Visit the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/sign-up) to create an account, create an instance, and get your keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keyless mode works with Clerk's SDKs for [Next.js](/docs/quickstarts/nextjs). If you're using a different framework or SDK, you'll need to manually configure Clerk keys in your environment. Visit the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/sign-up) to create an account, create an instance, and get your keys.
```

---
title: Keyless Mode
description: Develop locally without requiring a Clerk account.
---

**Keyless Mode** allows you to try out Clerk in your local development environment without having to sign up for a Clerk account.

> [!WARNING]
> Keyless mode is only available in Next.js projects when developing locally. If you attempt to build your project for production, Clerk will throw an error.

## How does it work?

> If Clerk's SDK doesn't detect valid [Clerk keys](TODO) in your environment, it will automatically fetch a set of keys for you. These keys are associated with a Clerk development instance that has a default configuration. When running locally in Keyless Mode, you'll see a UI toast indicating that you're running in this special mode with a link to claim your instance by signing up for a Clerk account, or signing in if you already have one.

Reviewer 2: @mwickett What url where you thinking of replacing TODO with ?

Author: ah, thank you. Maybe [this](https://clerk.com/docs/deployments/clerk-environment-variables#clerk-publishable-and-secret-keys)? Or perhaps it doesn't need to be linked at all. What do you think?

### Default configuration

Clerk development instances have the following default configuration:

- **Authentication**: Email and password, Sign-in with Google, Sign-in with GitHub
- **Verification**: Email verification is required
- **Password reset**: Password reset is enabled
- **MFA**: MFA is disabled
- **Appearance**: Default appearance

When using Clerk in Keyless Mode, you're not able to make configuration changes to your instance. To make changes, [claim your instance](#claiming-keys).

## Keyless Mode support

Keyless mode works with Clerk's SDKs for [Next.js](/docs/quickstarts/nextjs). If you're using a different framework or SDK, you'll need to manually configure Clerk keys in your environment. Visit the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/sign-up) to create an account, create an instance, and get your keys.

## Claiming keys

When you're ready to make configuration changes to your instance, you can claim the automatically generated keys. To do this, click the "Claim keys" button in the Clerk toolbar on your local application.

> ![Claim keys modal](/docs/images/keyless/keyless-toast.png)

Reviewer 3: The test in the graphic is out of date with the latest. Is it important to include this as these can easily get out of sync.

Author: yeah, that's fair. I felt like including screenshots made things clearer, but the maintenance burden might not be worth it. I know @victoriaxyz and @alexisintech are generally against screenshots, so I'd be fine to pull them. WDYT?

Reviewer 4: Hihi @alexcarpenter @mwickett, I'm making changes locally to edit the guide and will remove the screenshot so don't worry about it! :)

---
title: Keyless Mode
description: Learn how to use Keyless Mode to prototype and test Clerk's authentication features locally without creating an account or managing API keys.
search: false
metadata:
    robots:
        index: false
---

Keyless Mode allows you to quickly prototype and test Clerk's authentication features in your **local development environment** without creating a Clerk account.

> Keyless Mode is currently available only for the Next.js SDK. See the [step-by-step tutorial](/docs/references/nextjs/keyless) to get started.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Keyless Mode is currently available only for the Next.js SDK. See the [step-by-step tutorial](/docs/references/nextjs) to get started.
```
